Gravitational waves are not so easily blocked. Although they are weak, they are hard to mask, and so future observations of the waves could allow scientists to break through the optical limit and see what the universe looked like moments after the big bang.  The earliest gravitational waves were probably emitted a fraction of a second after the big bang, when the universe went from being smooth and structureless to clumpy, at which point spacetime became “bendy”.  The transition is thought to have left a gravitational wave imprint on the entire universe, which might be visible with future detectors more sensitive than Ligo.  There are plenty more phenomena scientists hope to spot sooner. Gravitational waves spread out from cosmic events that accelerate huge quantities of matter. This happens when a star explodes, but until now, all astronomers have seen is the bright flash of light that marks a star’s death. By studying gravitational waves, scientists hope to learn for the first time what happens inside a collapsing star.  “It should produce a gravitational wave signal and it’s a signal that would give us information that currently we can’t get any other way, because it’s about what’s happening inside a collapsing star,” Rowan said.  When Ligo switched on, scientists thought that the first waves they spotted were likely to come from collisions between neutron stars, some of the most exotic entities in the universe. Neutron stars form when massive stars die. They have crusts and crystalline cores and are incredibly dense: a teaspoon of neutron star weighs as much as Mount Everest.  You may add kimchi to your fried chicken rather than ketchup, but, however you dress it up, fried chicken is thriving because people of all stripes love filthy food. As a nation, we have fallen hard for succulent meat in a crisp, spicy coating. Moreover, whether that chicken is factory-farmed in South America or reared free-range in Suffolk, it has taken off as a product – grown wings, so to speak – because it is a comparatively cheap protein, which you can easily train people to cook. Necessity is the mother of invention, and in an age of austerity when there is a dire shortage of skilled chefs, fried chicken is a simple, popular, cost-effective menu item.  It is most closely associated with the US (where West African slaves or, possibly their Scottish oppressors, introduced it), but there are numerous global variations on fried chicken, particularly in Asia: Malaysian turmeric fried chicken served with nasi lemak; Korean fried chicken; Japan’s potato starch-powered karaage. In Spain, at A Fuego Negro, the kitchen coats its birds in what tastes like crushed, ready salted crisps, to create the finest chicken How To Eat has ever tasted.  For the sake of brevity, however, we will concentrate here on what we understand as southern fried, post-KFC chicken, and menu items common in our new wave, US-inspired diners.  Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, president of the Royal Society, said the win underscored the value of patiently supporting basic science for decades, which in this case led to immense payoffs. “It has already been used by drug companies to do structures of important drug targets, and it is used to understand fundamental biology that can change medicine in the future – so it just goes to show you how all these things are linked,” he said.  Dr Carsten Sachse, of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory in Heidelberg who worked with Henderson in Cambridge, describes his former colleague as a “visionary”. “When I worked with him that was a time when it was not clear how far the technology really would go but he had it all worked out in his head and he just had to make this happen,” he said.  The nine science Nobel prize winners this year include include seven Americans (Frank and Rainer Weiss, who won the physics prize yesterday, are both German-born US citizens). The academy’s secretary-general, Göran Hansson, commented on this success after the announcement: “The United States has after the Second World War allowed scientists to perform fundamental research, to focus on important questions in science, not forcing them to do immediate applications, not controlling them in a political way,”  Prof Magdalena Zernicka-Goetz, professor of mammalian development and stem cell biology at the University of Cambridge, said: “A visual image is the essential component to understanding, often the first one to open our eyes, and so our minds, to a scientific breakthrough,” she said.  Dame Athene Donald, a professor of experimental physics at the University of Cambridge whose work has focussed on understanding biological structures, said the technique had made an enormous difference to her field, adding that she had been struck by a talk by Henderson that she attended during her PhD. “It was stunning work,” she said. “It’s a long time ago but it’s brilliant to see the developments finally be rewarded by this year’s award.”  Barry Fuller, professor in surgical sciences at University College London Medical School, said Dubochet is widely known as a “star” in his field. “The technology is aimed … on imaging biomolecules in the life process ‘frozen’ in time – so they are called to immediate halt,” he said.  In the future, Fuller added, understanding the configurations and stability of biomolecules at ultra-low temperatures could also accelerate efforts in cryobiology, where scientists are focused on how to vitrify human tissue and organs to allow them to be preserved for long durations.  Last year’s prize went to three European chemists for developing “nano-machines”, an advance that paved the way for the world’s first smart materials.  On Monday, three American scientists shared the 2017 Nobel prize in physiology or medicine for their painstaking work on circadian rhythms and the Nobel prize in chemistry went to another American trio for the first observation of gravitational waves.  Some of the Amazon’s most endangered creatures are under threat from the growing trend of tourists taking “wild animal selfies”, according to a new investigation by the charity World Animal Protection released this week.  Selfies with animals has become a trend in recent years, with a 292% increase in the number of images posted to Instagram from 2014 to present. However, behind the scenes animals are kept in cruel conditions with many dying soon after being snatched from their natural habitat.  More than 40% of images taken are what are referred to as “bad” wildlife selfies: photos that feature someone hugging, holding or inappropriately interacting with a wild animal.  World Animal Protection sent investigators to the Manaus, Brazil, and Puerto Alegria, Peru, to establish the extent of the problem. It found evidence of irresponsible tour operators and cruelty being inflicted on wild animals used to provide photo opportunities for tourists that pay for the experience.  Wildlife tourism in Latin America is extensive. Research by the charity found that more than half of 249 attractions it looked at online offered direct contact with wild animals. It was particularly concerned at the use of sloths as “props” in photos. According to the charity, the animal is particularly vulnerable to human interaction and there is “good reason to believe” that most sloths being used for tourist selfies don’t survive beyond six months of this treatment.  “It’s extremely distressing to see animals being stolen from the wild and used as photo props for posting on social media,” says global wildlife adviser, Dr Neil D’Cruze from World Animal Protection. “The growing demand for harmful wildlife selfies is not only a serious animal welfare concern but also a conservation concern. Our online review of this kind of practice in Latin America found that more than 20% of the species involved are threatened by extinction and more than 60% are protected by international law.”  As well as calling on governments to enforce existing laws and ensure travel companies and tour operators abide by them, the charity is also launching a Wildlife Selfie Code to teach tourists how to take a photo with a wild animal without contributing to cruelty. This means refraining from taking a selfie with an animal that is being held, hugged or restrained, is being baited with food, or has the possibility of causing harm to someone. Selfies with wild animals should be taken from a safe distance to the animal, which should be in its natural habitat, free to move and not being held captive.  Steve McIvor, CEO at World Animal Protection said: “The wildlife selfie craze is a worldwide phenomenon fuelled by tourists, many of whom are unaware of the abhorrent conditions and terrible treatment wild animals can endure to provide that special souvenir photo.”  He added: “Behind the scenes wild animals are being taken from their mothers as babies and secretly kept in filthy, cramped conditions or repeatedly baited with food, causing severe psychological trauma.” 